# LucreEvent

## statement

LucreEvent provides a reactive event and observer layer for LucreSTM, a software transactional memory and persistence library for the Scala programming language. The reactive system implements event graphs which also can be persistent, along with live observers. A sub module adds an provides an expression tree system.

LucreEvent is (C)opyright 2011&ndash;2014 by Hanns Holger Rutz. All rights reserved. It is released under the [GNU General Public License](https://raw.github.com/Sciss/LucreEvent/master/licenses/LucreEvent-License.txt) and comes with absolutely no warranties. To contact the author, send an email to `contact at sciss.de`

Further reading:

 - Rutz, H.H., "A Reactive, Confluently Persistent Framework for the Design of Computer Music Systems," in Proceedings of the 9th Sound and Music Computing Conference (SMC), Copenhagen 2012.
 - Gasiunas, V. and Satabin, L. and Mezini, M. and Núñez, A. and Noyé, J., "EScala: Modular Event-Driven Object Interactions in Scala," in Proceedings of the tenth international conference on Aspect-oriented software development, pp. 227--240, 2011.

## requirements / installation

LucreEvent builds with sbt 0.12 against Scala 2.10. It depends on [LucreSTM](https://github.com/Sciss/LucreSTM) and on [LucreData](https://github.com/Sciss/LucreData) which should be automatically found by sbt.

## linking

The projects is divided into a `core` module (just the event layer) and an `expr` module (the expression tree layer). The following dependency is necessary:

    "de.sciss" %% "lucreevent" % v

Or just for the core layer:

    "de.sciss" %% "lucreevent-core" % v

And for the expression layer:

    resolvers += "Oracle Repository" at "http://download.oracle.com/maven"

    "de.sciss" %% "lucreevent-expr" % v

The current version `v` is `"2.6.+"`.

## documentation

At the moment, there are only sparse API documentation, which is generated by `sbt doc`. The basic concept:

TODO!

 - The system distinguishes between persisted and live references (even with a pure in-memory system), where a change in an observed object is propagated through a mechanism called 'tunnelling', pushing along stub nodes until a live node is found, which in turn evaluates the path in pull fashion.
